hey this is Prestel Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
fun problem that's been going viral on
Facebook and Twitter please email me any
problems you see that are going viral on
social media
you have a rectangle with three circles
whose diameters are three centimeters
four centimeters and six centimeters the
question is what is the distance a B in
the diagram now many people sent me this
problem and I give a special thanks to
the first two people who sent it to me
thanks to Riyadh Tamala from Tunisia and
Shivam Varma from India can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution so how can we solve this
problem well first let's draw the center
of each circle next we'll consider the
radius of each circle the blue circle
has a radius of 1.5 the green circle has
a radius of 2 and the red circle has a
radius of 3 we essentially want the
horizontal distance between the center
of the blue circle and the center of the
red circle so we'll do that by
considering the horizontal distance
between each of the two circles so first
let's consider the center between the
Green and the red circle to do that
we'll draw a right triangle now one leg
of this triangle the vertical distance
will be the difference of the radii of
these two circles this leg will be the
difference of 3 and 2 so it will equal 1
the other thing is we know the
hypotenuse because the two circles are
tangent it will be the sum of the radii
so the hypotenuse will be equal to 2
plus 3 which equals 5 we can now
consider the horizontal distance between
the green and red circles by using the
Pythagorean theorem this will be equal
to the square root of the quantity 5
squared minus 1 squared
and this simplifies to be two times the
square root of six
so we've considered this horizontal
distance which is one segment of a B we
now we'll figure out the rest of the
distance by considering the horizontal
distance between the blue and the green
circle so we'll draw another right
triangle now in order to figure out the
vertical distance or one leg of this
triangle
notice that this length is equal to one
point five because that's the radius of
the blue circle now the entire vertical
distance will equal three plus three so
we can figure out the leg of this right
triangle as equal to three plus three
minus one point five that's the radius
of the blue circle and minus two that's
the radius of the green circle so this
vertical distance will equal to point
five that's one leg of this triangle now
the hypotenuse will be the sum of the
radii so it will equal one point five
plus two which is three point five
now we'll figure out the other leg of
this triangle using the Pythagorean
theorem this will equal to the square
root of the quantity three point five
squared minus two point five squared and
this simplifies to be the square root of
six so this will be the other horizontal
distance that we need to know so now to
figure out the length of a B we simply
add the square root of 6 and 2 square
root of 6 and we get three square root
of six and that's approximately seven
point three five centimeters and that's
our answer did you figure it out thanks
for watching this video these math
videos which can be watched for free on
YouTube inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over a hundred million views please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos and email me a puzzle or math
topic presh and mind your decisions calm
if you so choose you can check out my
merchandise which is listed on teespring
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support